---
title: "Bite the itch before it bites you!"
description: "Based in Kansas City, MO, KC Pest Experts provides expert pest control services for your home or business. Call (913) 600-5247 today to learn more!"
pubDate: 2024-03-14
author: "KC Pest Experts"
coverImage: "/images/blog/bite-the-itch-before-it-bites-you.jpg"
coverAlt: "Bite the itch before it bites you!"
---

Protecting your home from Mosquitoes has never been more important for the greater Kansas City region. Several confirmed cases of West Nile Virus in the region have caused many to be concerned about mosquitoes In recent years and prompted a desire to figure out a remedy that would be child and pet friendly. Oftentimes eliminating the possibility of being bitten by mosquitoes requires repellents and various chemicals that need to be applied to your skin and clothing prior to being outdoors. Utilizing such methods is not desirable among many individuals who try to avoid chemicals and the harmful after effects of aerosol chemical repellents. Controlling mosquito populations in a yard carries its own unique plan of action to be successful; however, eliminating Mosquitoes in an entire region proves even more difficult. With the Kansas City region being high on a very popular and trusted list of highest mosquito infested regions in the country, now is the time for you to take action to proactively protect your home and yard.

KC Pest Experts has developed a mosquito treatment action plan for your yard, eliminating and preventing mosquito populations from thriving. Providing this effective mosquito control treatment for your yard without the fear of using chemicals or any harmful pesticides around your children or pets is the regimen in which KC Pest Experts specializes. We are your number one source for an effective organic and safe mosquito elimination program for your yard. Founder and Owner Aaron Eades has proven the effectiveness of our successful treatment programs in the region for the past 11 years.

Because Mosquito viruses are very serious, lacking a plan of action to shield your home from these parasites leaves you vulnerable to multiple problems caused by mosquito bites. The most common mosquito found in the region is the Culex Mosquito. Culex mosquito nesting habits in yards and around homes requires a special machine that will emit our non-chemical organic products so they penetrate those areas. Having your yard treated once every 30 days between March and October will provide the protection you need in order to enjoy your lawn while having the peace of mind that your loved ones are ok. Exceptional customer service is our priority. We never arrive unannounced and always make certain that our technicians provide the greatest service possible in the region. We want a safe but effective control of Mosquitoes in the Kansas City Metro, and our services here at KC Pest Experts provide exactly that. Bite the Itch before it bites you!
