---
title: "Just say No to Bugs"
description: "Based in Kansas City, MO, KC Pest Experts provides expert pest control services for your home or business. Call (913) 600-5247 today to learn more!"
pubDate: 2024-03-14
author: "KC Pest Experts"
coverImage: "/images/blog/just-say-no-to-bugs.jpg"
coverAlt: "Just say No to Bugs"
---

As I’m sitting here thinking about pest control and educating all of our readers, I am in literal shock that it’s already Spring time 2024. The Kansas City Metro is a very interesting environment concerning pests and the severity levels of certain bugs and arachnids. In addition to being surrounded by hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland in the region, large water ways and cities with tens of thousands of residents, we also get a fairly equal dose of all 4 seasons with typically high humidity levels. When you combine these factors while discussing pest populations and heavy infestations of certain types of bugs / spiders, all of these things play a huge role. It is very interesting when we meet customers who move to the Kansas City area from other parts of the country and we learn the differences of our region vs. their prior residence. For instance, recently we met a client from Arizona originally and they were in shock they could walk through their yard barefoot without having to worry about scorpions. While there are some pests we thankfully do not have to worry about, like scorpions, there are others that are very dominant in our region. Two pests that come to mind that seem to be a problem every month out of the year in the Kansas City region are Brown Recluse spiders and Subterranean Termites. As we are thinking about summer and weather transitions etc, there are multiple other pests in the region that will flare up depending on the season we are in. Having your home on a routine pest control maintenance program is the best way to ensure that you can keep the seasonal pests at bay – while also continually attacking the regular pests that are always an issue like the recluse and others. If you have any questions about routine pest control maintenance, don’t hesitate to call our office and speak to one of our experts for a free consultation.
